I see the Moon Moon sees me the moon
sees somebody that I don't see God bless
the moon god bless me and God bless the
somebody that I don't see if I get to
heaven before you do I'll make a hole
and pull you through and I'll write your
name on every star and that way the
world won't seem so far the astronaut
will not be at work today he is called
in sick he has turned off his cell phone
his laptop his pager his alarm clock
there is a fat yellow cat asleep on his
couch rain drops against the window and
not even the hint of coffee in the
kitchen air everybody is in a tizzy the
engineers on the 15th floor have stopped
working on their particle machine the
antigravity room is leaking and even the
freckled kid with glasses whose only job
is to take out the trash is nervous
fumbles the bag spills a banana peel and
a paper cup nobody notices they are too
busy recalculating what this will mean
for lost time how many galaxies are we
losing per second how long before the
next rocket can be launched somewhere an
electron flies off its energy cloud a
black hole has erupted a mother finishes
setting the table for dinner a
law-and-order marathon is starting the
astronaut is asleep he has forgotten to
turn off his watch which takes like a
metal pulse against his wrist he does
not hear it he dreams of coral reefs and
plankton his fingers find the
pillowcases sailing masts he turns on
his side opens his eyes once he thinks
that scuba divers must have the most
wonderful job in the world
so much water to glide through thank you
when I was little I could not understand
the concept that you could only live one
life I don't mean this metaphorically I
mean I literally thought that I was
going to get to do everything there was
to do and be everything there was to be
it was only a matter of time and there
was no limitation based on age or gender
or race or even appropriate time period
I was sure that I was going to actually
experience what it felt like to be a
leader of the civil rights movement or a
ten year old boy living on a farm during
the dustbowl or an emperor of the Tang
Dynasty in China my mom says that when
people asked me what I wanted to be when
I grew up my typical response was
princess ballerina astronaut and what
she doesn't understand is that I wasn't
trying to invent some combined super
profession I was listing things I
thought I was going to get to be a
princess and a ballerina and an
astronaut and I'm pretty sure the list
probably went on from there I usually
just got cut off it was never a question
of if I was going to get to do something
so much as a question of when and I was
sure that if I was going to do
everything that it probably meant I had
to move pretty quickly because there was
a lot of stuff I needed to do so my life
was constantly in a state of rushing I
was always scared that I was falling
behind and since I grew up in New York
City as far as I could tell rushing was
pretty normal but as I grew up I had
this sinking realization that I wasn't
gonna get to live any more than one life
I only knew what it felt like to be a
teenage girl in New York City not a
teenage boy in New Zealand not a prom
queen in Kansas I only got to see
through my lens and it was around this
time that I became obsessed with stories
because it was through stories that I
was able to see through someone else's
lens however briefly or imperfectly and
I started craving
hearing other people's experiences
because I was so jealous that there were
entire lives that I was never going to
get to live and I wanted to hear about
everything that I was missing and by
transitive property I realized that some
people we're never going to get to
experience what it felt like to be a
teenage girl in New York City which
meant that they weren't gonna know what
the subway ride after your first kiss
feels like or how quiet it gets when it
snows and I wanted them to know I wanted
to tell them and this became the focus
of my obsession I busied myself telling
stories and sharing stories and
collecting them and it's not until
recently that I realized that I can't
always rush poetry in April for National
Poetry Month there's this challenge that
many poets in the poetry community
participate in and it's called the 3030
challenge and the idea is you write a
new poem every single day for the entire
month of April and last year I tried it
for the first time and was thrilled by
the efficiency at which I was able to
produce poetry but at the end of the
month I looked back at these 30 poems
that I had written and discovered that
they were all trying to tell the same
story it had just taken me 30 tries to
figure out the way that it wanted to be
told and I realized that this is
probably true of other stories on an
even larger scale I have stories that I
have tried to tell for years rewriting
and rewriting constantly searching for
the right words there's a French poet
and essayist by the name of Paul valéry
who said that a poem is never finished
is only abandoned and this terrifies me
because it implies that I could keep re
editing and rewriting forever and it's
up to me to decide when a poem is
finished and when I can walk away from
it and this goes directly against my
very obsessive nature to try to find the
right answer and the perfect words in
the right form and I use poetry in my
life as a way to help me navigate and
work through things but just because I
end a poem doesn't mean that I've solved
what it was I was puzzling through I
like to revisit old poetry because it
shows me exactly where I was at that
moment and what it was I was trying to
navigate and the words that I chose to
help me now I have a story that I've
stumbling over for years and years and
I'm not sure if I found the perfect form
or whether this is just one attempt and
I will try to rewrite it later in search
of a better way to tell it but I do know
that later when I look back I will be
able to know that this is where I was at
this moment and this is what I was
trying to navigate with these words here
in this room with you so smile it didn't
always work this way there was a time
you had to get your hands dirty when you
were in the dark for most of it fumbling
was a given if you needed more contrast
more saturation darker darks and
brighter brights they called it extended
development meant you spent longer
inhaling chemicals longer up to your
wrists it wasn't always easy grandpa
Stewart was a navy photographer young
red-faced with the sleeves rolled up
fists of fingers like fat rolls of coins
he looked like Popeye the sailorman come
to life crooked smile tuft of chest hair
he showed up to World War two with a
smirk and a hobby when they asked him if
he knew much about photography
he lied learn to read Europe like a map
upside down from the height of a fighter
plane camera snapping eyelids flapping
the darkest darks and brightest brights
he learned war like he could read his
way home when other men returned they
put their weapons out to rust but he
brought the lenses and the cameras home
with him opened the shop turned it into
a family affair my father was born into
this world of black and white his
basketball hands learned the tiny clicks
and slides of lens into frame film into
camera chemical into plastic bin his
father knew the equipment but not the
art he knew the darks but not the
brights my father learned the magic
spent his time following light once he
traveled across the country to follow a
forest fire hunted it with his camera
for a week
follow the light he said follow the
light there are parts of me I only
recognize from photo
the loft on Wooster Street with the
creaky hallways the 12-foot ceilings
white walls and cold floors this was my
mother's home before she was mother
before she was wife she was artists and
the only two rooms in the house with the
walls that reached all the way up to the
ceiling and doors that opened and closed
with a bathroom and the darkroom the
darkroom she built herself with
custom-made stainless steel sinks an 8
by 10 bed and larger that moved up and
down by a giant hand crank a bank of
color balance lights a white glass wall
for viewing prints a drying rack that
moved in and out from the wall my mother
built herself a darkroom made it her
home fell in love with a man with
basketball hands with the way he looked
at light I got married had a baby moved
to a house near a park but they kept the
loft on Wooster Street for birthday
parties and treasure hunts the baby
tipped the gray scale filled her parents
photo albums with red balloons and
yellow icing the baby grew into a girl
without freckles with a crooked smile
who didn't understand why her friends
did not have dark rooms in their houses
who never saw her parents kiss who never
saw them hold hands but one day another
baby showed up this one with perfect
straight hair and bubblegum cheeks they
named him sweet potato and when he
laughed he laughed so loudly he scared
the pigeons on the fire escape and the
four of them lived in that house near
the park the girl with no freckles the
sweet potato boy the basketball father
and darkroom mother and they lit their
candles and said their prayers and the
corners of the photographs curled one
day some towers fell and the house near
the park became a house under ash so
they escaped in backpacks on bicycles to
dark rooms but the loft on Wooster
Street was built for an artist not a
family of pigeons and walls that do not
reach the ceiling do not hold in the
yelling and the man with basketball
hands put his weapons out to rest he
could not fight this war and no maps
pointed home his hands no longer fit his
camera no longer fit his wife's no
longer fit his body the sweet potato boy
matched his fists into his mouth until
he had nothing more to say so the girl
without freckles
when treasure-hunting on her own and on
Wooster Street in the building with the
creaky hallways in a loft with the
12-foot ceilings in the dark room with
too many sinks under the color balance
light she found a note tacked to the
wall with a thumbtack left over from a
time before towers from a time before
babies and the note said a guy sure
loves a girl who works in the darkroom
it was a year before my father picked up
a camera again his first time out he
followed the Christmas lights dotting
their way through New York City's trees
tiny dots of light blinking out at him
from out of the darkest darks a year
later he traveled across the country to
follow a forest fire stayed for a week
hunting it with his camera
it was ravaging the west coast eating
18-wheeler trucks in its stride on the
other side of the country I went to
class and wrote a poem in the margins of
my notebook we have both learned the art
of capture
maybe we're learning the art of
embracing maybe we're learning the art
of letting go thank you